# Invidious

[Invidious](https://github.com/iv-org/invidious) is an alternative front-end to
YouTube.

This install assumes you want a private instance, protected by
username/password. If not, comment out the `Authentication` section in the
`docker-compose.yaml`.

```
make config
```

This will ask you to enter the domain name to use.
It automatically saves your responses into the configuration file
`.env_{INSTANCE}`.

### Authentication and Authorization

Running `make config` will ask whether or not you want to configure
authentication for your app (on top of any authentication your app provides).
You can configure OpenID/OAuth2 or HTTP Basic Authentication.

OAuth2 uses traefik-forward-auth to delegate authentication to an external
authority (eg. a self-deployed Gitea instance). Accessing this app will
require all users to login through that external service first. Once
authenticated, they may be authorized access only if their login id matches the
member list of the predefined authorization group configured for the app
(`INVIDIOUS_OAUTH2_AUTHORIZED_GROUP`). Authorization groups are defined in the
Traefik config (`TRAEFIK_HEADER_AUTHORIZATION_GROUPS`) and can be
[created/modified](https://github.com/EnigmaCurry/d.rymcg.tech/blob/master/traefik/README.md#oauth2-authentication)
by running `make groups` in the `traefik` directory.

For HTTP Basic Authentication, you will be prompted to enter username/password
logins which are stored in that app's `.env_{INSTANCE}` file.


```
make install
```

```
## Wait for all services to become HEALTH=healthy; Press Ctrl-C to quit watch
watch make status
```

```
make open
```

## Notes on invidious

The default setting is for clients to stream videos directly from Google. If
this is not desired, make sure you set the setting in the client interface
called `Proxy videos`. Also see [invidious docs on
this](https://github.com/iv-org/documentation/blob/master/Always-use-%22local%22-to-proxy-video-through-the-server-without-creating-an-account.md).

You should create an invidious account and log into the app, in addition to the
HTTP basic auth password. If you don't create an account, and you don't login,
your settings (eg. `Proxy Videos`) are not saved!

