# wireguard

[wireguard](https://www.wireguard.com/) is a simple VPN. This configuration uses
the
[linuxserver/docker-wireguard](https://github.com/linuxserver/docker-wireguard)
container.


This configuration starts a wireguard server in a container, and maps to the
host port 51820. Client credentials are printed to the log, in the form of QR
codes. Once the server is up, scan the code with your mobile client, and the VPN
is automatically setup.

You can make all traffic go through the VPN, or be selective
(`WIREGUARD_ALLOWEDIPS`).

## Config

Run `make config` to setup your `.env` file.

 * `WIREGUARD_TRAEFIK_HOST` the domain name of the wireguard server (even if you don't connect it to traefik)
 * `WIREGUARD_HOST_PORT` the wireguard port exposed to the host (eg. `51820`) (same port inside the container)
 * `WIREGUARD_PEERS` the number or the names of the clients to create (eg. client1,client2)
 * `WIREGUARD_SUBNET` the private subnet assigned to the wireguard server and clients (eg. `10.13.16.0`)
 * `WIREGUARD_PEERDNS` set the client DNS server to use (eg. `1.1.1.1`). If set
   to `auto`, use the hosts DNS resolver.
 * `WIREGUARD_ALLOWEDIPS` the allowed IPs will limit which traffic goes through
   the VPN. For example, `0.0.0.0/0, ::0/0` would force ALL traffic to go
   through the VPN, whereas `10.13.16.0/24` would only force the local subnet
   traffic to go through the VPN. Ultimately, its up to the client to configure,
   but this informs the client what its configuration should be.

## Install

Run `make install` to install the service.

## Usage

Make sure you install the wireguard client (including `wg-quick`) with your
package manager.

Run `make client-install` to install the local client (Must specify one of the
names you specified for `WIREGUARD_PEERS`, when asked).

Run `make client-start` to start the local wireguard client connection.

Run `make client-stop` to stop the local wireguard client connection.

## Mobile clients

For Android, [download the official wireguard client on
F-Droid](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/com.wireguard.android/)

View the wireguard logs to find the QR code printed in your terminal:

```
make logs
```

Scan the code with the wireguard app, and click the switch to connect.

**Note:** unlike the desktop wireguard client, the android client can only
connect to a single VPN at one time.

## Routes

If you use the configuration generated by `make config`, the
`WIREGUARD_ALLOWEDIPS` will be automatically setup so that wireguard will only
prepare a single route to the private Traefik `vpn` endpoint. All other routes
will work as normal, using the regular routes from your ISP.

You can manually change `WIREGUARD_ALLOWEDIPS` in the .env file to modify the
given routes. For instance, if you want *all* client traffic to flow through the
VPN, add the universal subnet:

```
## To make all traffic go through the vpn (IPv4 and IPv6):
WIREGUARD_ALLOWEDIPS=0.0.0.0/0, ::0/0
```

**Note:** While your client system is connected to the wireguard network, your
system will use the Docker host DNS resolver **for all DNS queries** even for
routes the do not use the VPN (all except for specific applications [browsers]
coded/configured to use DNS over HTTP/TCP, which avoids using the system DNS
resolver entirely). To modify the DNS records, you can simply edit the
`/etc/hosts` file on the Docker host system, and they will immediately take
effect for the wireguard client systems.

For example, if you install the [mailu](../mailu) service, you will need to add
the IP address pointing to your Traefik instance's IP on the `traefik-wireguard`
network:

```
## This is the default Traefik IP address on the traefik-wireguard network:
172.15.0.3      mail.example.com
```
