# wireguard

[wireguard](https://www.wireguard.com/) is a simple VPN. This configuration uses
the
[linuxserver/docker-wireguard](https://github.com/linuxserver/docker-wireguard)
container.

This configuration starts a wireguard server in a container, and maps
to the host port 51820, and joins the `traefik-vpn` docker network.
Client credentials are printed to the log, in the form of QR codes.
Once the server is up, scan the code with your mobile client, and the
VPN is automatically setup.

There is an associated client configuration in
[wireguard-client](../wireguard-client).

You can make all traffic go through the VPN, or be selective
(`WIREGUARD_ALLOWEDIPS`).

You can also configure private services, running on any client, to be exposed to
the internet through Traefik.

## Config

You must first reconfigure Traefik to [enable the vpn
endpoint](../traefik#vpn-endpoint), setting
`TRAEFIK_VPN_ENTRYPOINT_ENABLED=true`. From the `traefik` directory,
re-run `make config` and answer yes to the question to enable the VPN
entrypoint and then re-run `make install`. This will automatically
create the `traefik-vpn` docker network, which must exist before
installing wireguard.

Now in this directory (`wireguard`), run `make config` to setup your
`.env` file.

 * `WIREGUARD_TRAEFIK_HOST` the domain name of the wireguard server (even if you don't connect it to traefik)
 * `WIREGUARD_HOST_PORT` the wireguard port exposed to the host (eg. `51820`) (same port inside the container)
 * `WIREGUARD_PEERS` the number or the names of the clients to create (eg. client1,client2)
 * `WIREGUARD_SUBNET` the private subnet assigned to the wireguard server and clients (eg. `10.13.16.0`)
 * `WIREGUARD_PEERDNS` set the client DNS server to use (eg. `1.1.1.1`). If set
   to `auto`, use the hosts DNS resolver.
 * `WIREGUARD_ALLOWEDIPS` the allowed IPs will limit which traffic goes through
   the VPN. For example, `0.0.0.0/0, ::0/0` would force ALL traffic to go
   through the VPN, whereas `10.13.16.0/24` would only force the local subnet
   traffic to go through the VPN. Ultimately, its up to the client to configure,
   but this informs the client what its configuration should be.

## Install

Run `make install` to install the service.

## Usage

Make sure you install the wireguard client (including `wg-quick`) with your
package manager.

Run `make client-install` to install the local client (Must specify one of the
names you specified for `WIREGUARD_PEERS`, when asked).

Run `make client-start` to start the local wireguard client connection.

Run `make client-stop` to stop the local wireguard client connection.

Note: the `client-install`, `client-start`, `client-stop` targets are all
controlling the local *system level* wireguard network interfaces. If you want
to use a client in a container, use [wireguard-client](../wireguard-client)
instead.

## Mobile clients

For Android, [download the official wireguard client on
F-Droid](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/com.wireguard.android/)

View the wireguard logs to find the QR code printed in your terminal:

```
make logs
```

Scan the code with the wireguard app, and click the switch to connect.

**Note:** unlike the desktop wireguard client, the android client can only
connect to a single VPN at one time.

## Routes

If you use the configuration generated by `make config`, the
`WIREGUARD_ALLOWEDIPS` will be automatically setup so that wireguard will only
prepare a single route to the private Traefik `vpn` endpoint. All other routes
will work as normal, using the regular routes from your ISP.

You can manually change `WIREGUARD_ALLOWEDIPS` in the .env file to modify the
given routes. For instance, if you want *all* client traffic to flow through the
VPN, add the universal subnet:

```
## To make all traffic go through the vpn (IPv4 and IPv6):
WIREGUARD_ALLOWEDIPS=0.0.0.0/0, ::0/0
```

**Note:** While your client system is connected to the wireguard network, your
system will use the Docker host DNS resolver **for all DNS queries** even for
routes the do not use the VPN (all except for specific applications [browsers]
coded/configured to use DNS over HTTP/TCP, which avoids using the system DNS
resolver entirely). To modify the DNS records, you can simply edit the
`/etc/hosts` file on the Docker host system, and they will immediately take
effect for the wireguard client systems.

For example, if you install the [mailu](../mailu) service, you will need to add
the IP address pointing to your Traefik instance's IP on the `traefik-wireguard`
network:

```
## This is the default Traefik IP address on the traefik-wireguard network:
172.15.0.3      mail.example.com
```

## Private services

To create services that only VPN users can access, see the example in the
[whoami](whoami) service that is located in this same directory. It is
configured to listen only on the Traefik `vpn` endpoint.

Traefik binds the `vpn` endpoint on port `442`, on an ip address (`172.15.0.3`
by default) that is only accessible from the `traefik-wireguard` network (or
from the docker host). Port `442` is not exposed to the internet.

Since web browsers default `https://` URLs to use port `443`, a
redirect from port `443` (`websecure` endpoint) to port `442` (`vpn`
endpoint) is added for convenience. This redirect only happens for
requests originating from IP addresses in the `traefik-wireguard`
subnet range. If requests come on any other network, the access is
forbidden (and furthermore, port `442` should be firewalled).

Be sure to add the whoami domain name to your system `/etc/hosts` file, so that
your clients can resolve the private Traefik IP address:

```
## This is the default Traefik IP address on the traefik-wireguard network:
172.15.0.3      whoami-vpn.example.com
```

## Bridging private client services to the public internet

To expose publicly a private service running on any of the wireguard client
hosts, you can use Traefik to proxy via the `wireguard-traefik` network.

Yes, this means you can run a public webserver on your phone.

### Step 1: Start the local service you want to expose

Run a webserver from the machine running the wireguard client. If you have
Python installed, you can start a demo server: go to a directory containing some
files you want to share, and run the python builtin web server:

```
cd ~/tmp
python -m http.server
```

This will run a server locally, running on port 8000.

### Step 2: Expose the port to the traefik-wireguard network

The wireguard container needs a firewall rule to allow traffic into the private
wireguard network. This is automated by the following make target:

```
make client-expose-port
```

Answer the questions:
 * Enter the private wireguard IP address of your client (eg. `10.15.0.2`)
 * Enter the TCP port number of the server (eg. `8000`)
 
You can list all the open port mappings:

```
make ports
```

### Step 3: Create a Traefik route to your private service

Create a new Traefik config file and put it in
`../traefik/config/config-template/my-private-vpn-service.yaml` :


```
## This example exposes a private HTTP server on a wireguard VPN network,
## through Traefik, to an endpoint accessible by the public internet.

http:
  services:
    my-private-vpn-service:
      loadBalancer:
        servers:
          - url: "http://wireguard:8000/"
  routers:
    my-private-vpn-service:
      rule: "Host(`test.example.com`)"
      service: my-private-vpn-service
      tls:
        certResolver: production
```

Make sure to change the `Host` rule to be the desired domain name for your service.

Restart the traefik service:

```
make -C ../traefik install
```

Test the server, it should now be live on the internet.

### Step 4: Cleanup

To remove the wireguard firewall rule to no longer expose the TCP port:

```
make ports-flush
```

To remove the Traefik router, remove (or comment out) the config file, and
restart Traefik:

```
rm ../traefik/config/config-template/my-private-vpn-service.yaml
make -C ../traefik install
```
